---
layout: post
title:  "Data Analytics from Business Perspective."
author: joko #check _config.yaml
categories: [ business analytics  ]
tags: #[ tag 1, tag 2  ]
#date: YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM
image: assets/images/1.jpg
credit: <a href="https://www.freepik.com/free-photos-vectors/business">Business photo created by freepik - www.freepik.com</a>
description: ""
featured: false
hidden: false
rating: #1-5 stars floating number
beforetoc: "The digital transformation brought us a handful of technology, term, and practical implementation that helps either individual or organization to improve and overcome their problem. One of them is business analytics which is a branch of data analytics practice and implementation."
keywords: "" #keywords for SEO
toc: true
#tableau dashboard embedding script.
##<iframe src="(Dashboard URL)?:showVizHome=no&:embed=true" width="660" height="900"></iframe>
---

The digital age revolution spread awareness of the importance of the data and its potential use case. Furthermore, the growth of cloud infrastructure leads to better data availability and affordability of database management to the wider audience. Especially for non-profit organizations, small enterprises, and even an individual could benefit from it. But to what end the development of data-related technology will lead us to?

That is where data analytics (furthermore, machine learning) comes in.

## Data Analytics, Business Analytics, and Their Differences

Data analytics is the process of collecting and examining raw data in order to draw conclusions about it. The real value of data analysis lies in its ability to recognize patterns in a dataset that may indicate trends, risks, or opportunities. It involves analyzing datasets to uncover trends and insights that are subsequently used to make informed organizational decisions.

Both business analytics and data analytics involve working with and manipulating data, extracting insights from data, and using that information to enhance business performance, the main difference between data analytics and business analytics lies in what they do with it.

While data analytics focuses more on the technical side and answering hypothetical questions to support the decision making, business analytics focuses on the larger business implications of data and the actions that should result from them, such as whether a company should develop a new product line or prioritize one project over another. 

## Business Analytics' Stages

There are three main kinds of business analytics — descriptive, predictive, and prescriptive. These are usually implemented in stages and together can answer or solve just about any question or problem a company may have. 

- *Descriptive analytics* answer the question, ‘What has happened?” This type of analytics evaluates historical data for insights on how to plan for the future. Thanks to the widespread availability of self-service data access and discovery tools and dashboards, executives and non-technical professionals can reap the benefit of insights generated by big data to improve business performance.
-  *Diagnostic analytics* answer the question arising from doing descriptive analytics, which is "Why did it happen?". It is characterized by techniques such as drill-down, data discovery, data-mining, and correlations.
- *Predictive analytics* is the next step on the path to insight. It uses machine learning and statistical techniques to help businesses anticipate the likelihood of future events. However, because predictive analytics is probabilistic in nature, it cannot actually predict the future; it can only suggest the most likely outcome based on what has happened in the past.
- *Prescriptive analytics* explores possible actions to take based on the results of descriptive and predictive analysis. This type of analytics combines, mathematical models, and business rules to optimize decision making by recommending multiple possible responses to different scenarios and tradeoffs.

## Benefit of Business Analytics

Implementation of business analytics most likely lead to several benefits such as:
- *Keeping you on budget.* If you’re like most small companies, your marketing budget is tight. Using business analytics helps you maximize every dollar by helping you get to know your customers better, anticipate their ever-changing needs, get an edge on the competition, and bring innovative ideas and products to the marketplace.  
- *Better decision making.* Not sure how to use your marketing budget? Or which keywords are most effective? What about predicting your biggest sellers over the holiday season? Business analytics uses data to inform decisions and improve accuracy, efficiency and response time. 
- *The ability to measure accomplishments against overall goals.* Business analytics gives you a clearer image of goals and objectives. By using data visualization, businesses can track their current and past performance against key performance indicators (KPIs), goals and objectives. 
- *Staying in the know.* Business owners and marketers can use analytics to track trends, customer behavior and market shifts. This data will allow you to keep on top of things and make changes dynamically when and if supporting data indicates it’s time. 
- *Building efficiency.* Nowadays, the speed at which businesses can garner data is lightning fast. Thanks to business analytics, you can identify any breakdown in process or performance in almost real-time, saving time, money and resources.  


<!-- ## Who might need business analytics? -->

Business and data analytics could be employed by anyone and any organization who wants to better understand their data, to make a data-driven decision, and to optimize their performance. Of course, before jumping into analytics, a certain level of data management maturity is required.  So that the resource-consuming-analytical-process is not going to be wasted, because of the lack of basic data management enablers.

Ideally, any organization that follows any management system standard, either ISO 9001, 55001, 14001, etc. are required to documenting their information, or in other words warehousing their data, which stated in clause 7, information requirements. So it now depends on how much further we are willing to exploits the *documented information* and implement the analytical thinking and method to gain invaluable benefits.


## References
1. **James R. Evans**; Business Analytics: Methods, Models, and Decisions; *2nd Edition*; *Pearson*; *2017*.
2. **Foster Provost & Tom Fawcett**; Data Science for Business: What You Need to Know About Data Mining and Data-Analytic Thinking; *O'Reilly*; *2013*.
3. **Microsoft 365 Team**; The Benefits of Business Analytics, 2019; *Available from: [link](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/growth-center/resources/benefits-of-business-analytics)*; *Accessed: 2020-01-13*.